

Staff  
The data required on members of staff includes staff number, name (first and last name), position, gender, date of birth (DOB), and name of the Supervisor (where appropriate). Members of staff in the position of Supervisor supervise an allocated group of staff (up to a maximum of 10 at any one time).  
Properties for rent  
The data stored on property for rent includes property number, address (street, city, and postcode), type, number of rooms, monthly rent, and the details of the property owner. The monthly rent for a property is reviewed annually. Most of the properties rented out by DreamHome are apartments (or flats). The management of a property is assigned to a member of staff whenever it is rented out or ready to be rented out. A member of staff may manage a maximum of 100 properties for rent at any one time.  
Property owners  
There are two main types of property owner: private owners and business owners. The data stored on private owners includes owner number, name (first and last name), address, telephone number, email, and password. The data stored on business owners includes owner number, name of business, business type, address, telephone number, email, password, and contact name.  
Clients  
When a prospective client registers with DreamHome, the data stored includes the client number, name (first and last name), telephone number, email, and some data on the desired property, including the preferred type of accommodation and the maximum rent that the client is prepared to pay. Also stored is the name of the member of staff who registered the new client.  
Property viewings  
Clients may request to view property. The data stored includes client number, name and telephone number, property number and address, date the client viewed the property, and any comments made by the client regarding the suitability of the property. A client may view the same property only once on a given date.  
Leases  
Once a client finds a suitable property, a lease is drawn up. The information on the lease includes lease number, client number and name, property number, address, type and number of rooms, monthly rent, method of payment, deposit (calculated as twice the monthly rent), whether the deposit is paid, the start and end dates of the rental period, and the duration of the lease. The lease number is unique across all DreamHome branches. A client may hold a lease associated with a given property from a minimum of three months to a maximum of 1 year.  


Branch User Views of DreamHome

DreamHome has branch offices in cities throughout the United Kingdom. Each branch office is allocated members of staff, including a Manager, who manages the operations of the office. The data describing a branch office includes a unique branch number, address (street, city, and postcode), telephone numbers (up to a maximum of three), and the name of the member of staff who currently manages the office. Additional data is held on each Manager, which includes the date that the Manager assumed his or her position at the current branch office, and a monthly bonus payment based upon his or her performance in the property for rent market.
Staff
Members of staff with the role of Supervisor are responsible for the day-to-day activities of an allocated group of staff called Assistants (up to a maximum of 10, at any one time). Not all members of staff are assigned to a Supervisor. The data stored regarding each member of staff includes staff number, name, address, position, salary, name of Supervisor (where applicable), and the details of the branch office at which a member of staff is currently working. The staff number is unique across all branches of DreamHome.
Properties for rent
Each branch office offers a range of properties for rent. The data stored for each property includes property number, address (street, city, postcode), type, number of rooms, monthly rent, and the details of the property owner. The property number is unique across all branch offices. The management of a property is assigned to a member of staff whenever it is rented out or requires to be rented out. A member of staff may manage a maximum of 100 properties for rent at any one time. When a given property is available for rent, the property details will be displayed on the DreamHome Web site and, when necessary, as advertisements in local and national newspapers.
Property owners
The details of property owners are also stored. There are two main types of property owner: private owners and business owners. The data stored for private owners includes owner number, name, address, telephone number, email, and password. The data stored on business owners includes name of business, type of business, address, telephone number, email, password, and contact name. The password will allow owners access to parts of the DreamHome database using the Web.
Clients
DreamHome refers to members of the public interested in renting property as clients. To become a client, a person must first register at a branch office of DreamHome. The data stored on clients includes client number, name, telephone number, email, preferred type of accommodation, and the maximum rent that the client is prepared to pay. Also stored is the name of the member of staff who processed the registration, the date the client joined, and some details on the branch office at which the client registered. The client number is unique across all DreamHome branches.
Leases
When a property is rented out, a lease is drawn up between the client and the property. The data listed in detail on the lease includes lease number, client number, name and address, property number and address, monthly rent, method of payment, an indication of whether the deposit has been paid deposit (calculated as twice the monthly rent), duration of lease, and the start and end dates of the lease period.
Newspapers
When required, the details of properties for rent are advertised in local and national newspapers. The data stored includes the property number, address, type, number of rooms, rent, the date advertised, the name of the newspaper, and the cost to advertise. The data stored on each newspaper includes the newspaper name, address, telephone number, and contact name.